+++
date = "2016-09-07T16:38:04-04:00"
title = "About PacBSD"
tags = [
]
categories = [
]
menu = ""
banner = ""
images = [
]
url = "/about"

+++

PacBSD is an independently developed, x86-65 general purpose GNU/BSD
distribution versatile enough to suit any role.  Development focuses on
simplicity, minimalism, and code elegance.  PacBSD is installed as a minimal
base system, configured by the user upon which their own ideal environment is
assembled by installing only what is required or desired for their unique
purposes. GUI configuration utilities are not officially provided, and most
system configuration is performed from the shell by editing simple text files.
PacBSD strives to stay bleeding edge, and typically offers the latest stable
versions of most software.

PacBSD uses Archlinux's Pacman package manager, which couples simple binary
packages with an easy-to-use package build system. This allows users to easily
manage and customize packages ranging from official PacBSD software to the
user's own personal packages to packages from 3rd party sources. The repository
system also allows users to easily build and maintain their own custom build
scripts, packages, and repositories, encouraging community growth and
contribution.

The minimal PacBSD base package set resides in the streamlined _core_
repository.  In addition, the official _extra_, _community_, and _testing_
repositories provide several thousand high-quality, packages to meet your
software demands.  PacBSD also offers an _unsupported_ section in the PacBSD
User Repository (PUR)

PacBSD uses a "rolling release" system which allows one-time installation and
perpetual software upgrades. It is not generally necessary to reinstall or
upgrade your PacBSD system from one "version" to the next. By issuing one
command, an PacBSD system is kept up-to-date and on the bleeding edge.

PacBSD strives to keep its packages as close to the original upstream software as
possible. Patches are applied only when necessary to ensure an application
compiles and runs correctly with the other packages installed on an up-to-date
PacBSD system.

To summarize: PacBSD is a versatile, and simple distribution designed to fit
the needs of the competent BSDÂ® user. It is both powerful and easy to manage,
making it an ideal distro for servers and workstations. Take it in any direction
you like. If you share this vision of what a GNU/BSD distribution should be,
then you are welcomed and encouraged to use it freely, get involved, and
contribute to the community.

Welcome to PacBSD!
